---
layout: post
title: Shelving 0.1.5
tags: release
comments: on
---

Welcome back folks. Since the last time I wrote an update, I have been in a dirge of motivation. I mean serious. At this point I only need to revise about 100 different strings for the game and its done. Though that doesn't really seem like a lot, the devil is in the details, and knowing that, I have just had an insurmountable mental wall <!--more--> that has prevented me from getting 0.1.5 accross the finish line.

Besides the general displeasure in the task of writing human readable text the bigger reason is that I already know that serious changes are coming that will make that content obselete; although I have not had the willpower to work on the game directly, the work in 0.1.5 has revealed to me whats next. Like a sculptor chiseling away at a block of stone, or a writer discovering the journey their characters are on, I believe game dev certainly has an exploratory component to it.

The only value in investing any more time into 0.1.5 is for its own sake - so that the release will be as good as it can be. Ultimately, like I mentioned [last time](2019-01-01-site-launch.md), 0.1.5 was going to have some half-baked glimpses into the future as it is; it was already going to be a little jank.

So 0.1.5 will not see the light of day.

Instead, I want to put together a post-mortem for last year for next week and then jump straight into 0.2. However, I did put a lot of good stuff into 0.1.5 besides the economy changes, and I want to share those along with some screenshots today. 

